---
title: "Fast Contact-implicit Model Predictive Control"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-01-04-cimpc
excerpt: 'contact-implicit model predictive control'
date: 2024-01-04
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Robotics'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Le Cleach, Simon and Howell, Taylor A and Yang, Shuo and Lee, Chi-Yen and Zhang, John and Bishop, Arun and Schwager, Mac and Manchester, Zachary. Fast contact-implicit model predictive control. IEEE Transactions on Robotics '
---
We present a general approach for controlling robotic systems that make and break contact with their environments. Contact-implicit model predictive control (CI-MPC) generalizes linear MPC to contact-rich settings by utilizing a bi-level planning formulation with lower-level contact dynamics formulated as time-varying linear complementarity problems (LCPs) computed using strategic Taylor approximations about a reference trajectory. These dynamics enable the upper-level planning problem to reason about contact timing and forces, and generate entirely new contact-mode sequences online. To achieve reliable and fast numerical convergence, we devise a structure-exploiting interior-point solver for these LCP contact dynamics and a custom trajectory optimizer for the tracking problem. We demonstrate real-time solution rates for CI-MPC and the ability to generate and track non-periodic behaviours in hardware experiments on a quadrupedal robot. We also show that the controller is robust to model mismatch and can respond to disturbances by discovering and exploiting new contact modes across a variety of robotic systems in simulation, including a pushbot, planar hopper, planar quadruped, and planar biped.

Recommended citation: Le Cleach, Simon and Howell, Taylor A and Yang, Shuo and Lee, Chi-Yen and Zhang, John and Bishop, Arun and Schwager, Mac and Manchester, Zachary. Fast contact-implicit model predictive control. IEEE Transactions on Robotics